Fixed a bug where the Soul of the Brine King You cannot be Frozen if you’ve been Frozen Recently Pantheon Power was not working correctly. Fixed a bug where Modifiers that granted the chance for Breach Splinters to drop as Breachstones instead were not working correctly for Breach Splinters dropped from Breach Bosses. Fixed a bug where Modifiers that granted the chance for Legion Splinters to drop as Legion Emblems instead could cause only a single Legion Emblem to drop. Fixed a bug where Heist Trinket that caused Orbs of Transmutation to drop as Regal Orbs would also have a chance to drop them as Orbs of Alchemy or Chaos Orbs. Fixed a bug where Heist Trinkets that caused Orbs of Transmutation to drop as Orbs of Alchemy or Chaos Orbs had no effect. Fixed a bug where some Heist Rogues were not affected by increased Job speed Modifiers. Fixed a bug where some Heist Rogues could get stuck in doors. Fixed a bug where the Reflected Damage from Divergent Molten Shell was not penetrating Enemy Fire Resistance. Fixed a bug where Olroth, Origin of the Fall could briefly stop using skills if taunted by a minion in the first phase of his fight. Fixed a bug where the beam skill used by a Maven-created clone of the Plaza Map boss would not cancel when a player entered a Conqueror arena. Fixed a bug where multiple increased Quantity of Items found in this Area Zana Modifiers could be seen when viewing the Map Device. Fixed a bug where the beams in The Purifier’s arena during the second phase of the fight were not working correctly. Fixed a bug where Modifiers proposed to be removed by Rog were not being highlighted if you did not have the Advanced Mod Descriptions Option turned on. Fixed a bug where you were unable to confirm a haggle with Tujen if you had clicked in the Vendor window search bar. Fixed a bug where killing Sevet Tetherein would deafen audio as if the player died. Fixed a bug where the Passive Skill Points available button would disappear while you were in an area that you had previously died in. Fixed a bug where Divergent Boneshatter was not displaying all of its Additional Effects From Quality when viewing it with Advanced Mod Descriptions. Fixed a visual bug where non-damaging Ailments could show the wrong effective value on players. Fixed two client crashes. Fixed an instance crash. Added an option to stop items on the ground from rendering if they're hidden by your item filter, which can help improve performance. This can be found under the Game category in Options. Added an option for propagating Supporter Pack Weapon Effects to your off-hand. This can be set when equipping a Weapon Effect to your main-hand in the Cosmetics Panel. Unwalkable terrain is no longer automatically revealed on the minimap in Expedition Logbook areas. Opening a Map with a Area contains a Blight Encounter Enchantment in an Atlas Region with the same Modifier on a Watchstone will no longer consume a charge of the Watchstones Modifier. Updated the description on Blight Scarabs to clarify Areas contain a single Blight Encounter (multiple Blight Encounters per area were never possible). Updated the Blight chests in areas have X% chance to Duplicate contained Items description to more accurately reflect its functionality. Updated the Strength of Blood Keystone Passive description to clarify that it does not affect Life Recovery from Instant Leech. Updated the Gut Instinct Atlas Passive description to clarify it does not provide Intelligence for the current Encounter’s Safehouse when releasing defeated Immortal Syndicate members. The size of the Royale Island has been increased by 50%. Disconnecting from an in-progress match now grants experience from your death to the players who most recently attacked you within the last 5 seconds. The out-of-bounds debuff now stacks for every 10 seconds you stay outside of the play area. Fixed a bug where Medved, Feller of Heroes could deal damage after death, for real this time. Fixed a bug where skills triggered by Mjolner or Cast on Death, and items that trigger a skill when equipped, could have a mana cost if used with items such as Voidbringers or Apep’s Rage. Fixed a bug where spikes created by Earthshatter did not gain increased Area of Effect when shattered with Seismic Cry. Fixed a bug where rats summoned by a Druidic Dire Familiar raised as a Spectre did not die when the Spectre died. Fixed a bug where Implicit attribute modifiers would block Explicit attribute modifiers from rolling on specific basetypes. Fixed a bug where patrolling Heist monsters could sometimes move faster than intended. Fixed a bug where Jonah Unchained could sometimes deal double damage. Fixed a bug where defeating Stone of the Currents, while Voltage Surge is active and while at least 15 Flood Orbs are alive, would not give credit towards the Complete Encounters III Challenge if the Flood Orbs were some distance away from the boss. Fixed a bug where storing items in the Expedition or Heist Lockers using Affinities would sometimes tell you it failed as the Locker did not have enough space for the item, even though storing them was successful. Fixed a bug where you could not purchase partial stacks of currency from vendors with Control-Shift-Click. Fixed a bug where filtering items in the Unique Stash Tab and Map Stash Tab could sometimes not work. Fixed a bug where the 3D art for Cherrubim’s Maleficence had lost some of its colour. Fixed a bug where characters with the Eldritch Battery Keystone Passive allocated would sometimes play their out of mana voiceline when using a skill, despite having enough Energy Shield to use the skill. Fixed a bug where the audio for Lancing Steel could stutter and cause the client to freeze. Fixed a bug where the audio for exploding enemies on kill with Voltaxic Burst was too loud. Fixed two instance crashes. Fixed two client crashes. Reduced the maximum cast range for long-distance skills on the following monsters: Baranite Thaumaturge, Unearthed Runecaster, Unearthed Urchin, Black Scythe Arbalist, Detonation Totem, Carnage Pillar, Stygian Revenant, Escaped Revenant, Mortality Experimenter, Flesh Sculptor, Hunting Party, Primal Chimeral, Primal Scrabbler, and Primal Rhex. Added crafting bench recipes for adding a specific Enchantment to a Flask. There are recipes for all of the possible Enchantments obtained through Instilling Orbs. These recipes are unlocked alongside the Rank 3 Movement Speed crafting option in Oriath (and will already be unlocked for you if you have obtained the Rank 3 Movement Speed crafting option in that league). Added a crafting bench recipe to remove Enchantments from an item. This recipe does not need to be unlocked and is always available. Monsters with the Hexfont Nemesis Modifier no longer inflict Silence. Monsters that cast Curses now have global cooldowns to prevent multiple of the same monster repeatedly cursing players. Updated the description for The Traitor keystone passive skill to properly reflect its functionality. Tweaked the visual effects of Storm Rain based on community feedback. Please let us know if you still have any issues! Improved the visuals effects of the Transcendence Exsanguinate Microtransaction Effect to more accurately reflect the preview video for this Microtransaction. Expedition Vendors can now offer item level 86 items in their shops. When offered an option to remove Modifiers with the lowest Modifier level when dealing with Rog, the item popup will now display the Modifier which will be removed, or the possible Modifiers which will be removed (if there are multiple). When skipping a crafting offer from Rog, the next craft he offers will no longer be the exact same craft you skipped, or a craft of the same type. Rog’s offer to apply a random Quality type to an item will now apply 10-20% Quality (previously 1-20%). This option is no longer offered for items that already have Quality. Rog now has a chance to offer to corrupt your item, with a high chance of corruption Implicits on the final deal. Rog now only offers the following options for Jewel deals: Reroll Prefixes, Reroll Suffixes, Reroll Modifier Values of Prefixes, Reroll Modifier Values of Suffixes, Add a Prefix Modifier, Add a Suffix Modifier, and Corrupt the item, with a high chance of receiving a Corrupted Implicit. Rog’s offers to apply random Incubators, Quality types or Anointments to items are now cheaper. Rog’s offers now cost slightly more Lesser and Common Artifacts, and slightly fewer Greater and Grand Artifacts. The chance to obtain Corrupted or Influenced rare items from Gwennen has been increased. Note, this change does not affect the chances of obtaining Unique items from Gwennen. The average stack size of Dannig’s exchange deals for Lesser, Common, and Greater Artifacts has been increased. The minimum discount for Dannig’s exchange deals has been increased. Tujen now offers more items priced in Common and Greater Artifacts, compared to Lesser Artifacts. The price of some items offered by Tujen has been reduced (mainly those that were priced in the thousands). The Remnant modifier that grants chests more Rarity no longer rolls in Logbook areas. The reason behind this change is that chests in Logbook areas drop extremely few regular items, so this modifier was not very beneficial here. Expedition bosses now drop more loot per Remnant affecting them. Expedition bosses now drop more currency and vendor reroll currency the higher the area level. Reduced the area of which you cannot place explosives around the camp in Logbook areas. Added a visual indicator to display the area of which you are unable to place explosives in around the camp in Logbook areas. The number of ramps leading up the cliffs from the beach to subsequent areas has been approximately doubled, though ramps have been made slightly narrower on average. A random level 1 Skill Gem now drops next to each player when the round begins. The availability of Skill Gems from other sources has not been adjusted for the time being. The number of rare monsters spawning throughout the island has been approximately halved. Damage dealt by all monsters other than those found on the beach has been adjusted to be more consistent, and a bit less lethal. Most monsters now deal less damage than they used to, but a few deal slightly more. Royale matches are now pooled per large geographic region. This will result in matches filling up much faster, though you may experience slightly higher latency than you did before when the matches were per-gateway. We will continue to balance this as the Royale player population fluctuates so that there's a good middle ground between games starting and average latency being low. Fixed a bug where Remnants were not affecting the chance to drop an additional Map from Runic Monsters or Excavated Chests. Fixed a bug where Logbooks with the implicit Area contains Vorana, Last to Fall modifier could sometimes fail to spawn Vorana. Fixed a bug where Medved, Feller of Heroes was classified as a Runic monster, and as a result, could be affected by Remnant modifiers that affect Runic monsters. Fixed a bug where Expedition Logbook subarea minibosses would be affected by Remnant modifiers that apply to Runic monsters. Fixed a bug with the seed generation of Expedition NPC shops. Fixed a bug where some Ancient Kalguuran Text could be unreachable. Fixed a bug where Shield Crush could fail to deal damage if your back was up against a wall. Fixed a bug where you were able to use Explosive Concoction with an off-hand Weapon and a disabled main-hand Weapon. Fixed a bug where Manabond could deal damage through walls. Fixed a bug where Hexblast was missing some of its visual effects. Fixed a bug where the Summoned Reaper could not destroy pots with some of their attacks. Fixed a bug where the Summoned Reaper’s two consume skills shared a cooldown. Fixed a bug where the duration of Lightning Warp could only be affected by the Less Duration Support. Fixed a bug where the Vaal Ice Nova skill gem stated it interacted with Frostbolt projectiles, it does not. Fixed a bug where the Spellslinger and Arcanist Brand skill gems were missing the Trigger gem tag. Fixed a bug where Smoke Mine was not triggering the Used when you Use a Travel Skill Flask Enchantment. Fixed a bug where Mirage Warriors summoned with General’s Cry would not be able to use Shield Crush with the Wolf Howl Warcry or Celestial Warcry Microtransaction effects equipped. Fixed a bug where Chill and Shock reflected to you while using The Fulcrum could sometimes be removed when killing monsters. Fixed a bug where the Reused when you stop being affected by this Flask’s effect Enchantment was reusing the Coruscating Elixir Ruby Flask every 2 seconds. Fixed a bug where the Victim Maker Cluster Jewel Notable Passive would apply Malediction to enemies Cursed by you when 66% of the Curse Duration expired, rather than 33% of the Curse Duration. Fixed a bug where Unearthed Monsters summoned by a Priest of the Chalice Spectre would remain in the area they were summoned. They now despawn if they are left behind in the area they were summoned. Fixed a bug where some monsters were not actually frozen when encased in an Essence Crystal. Fixed a bug where Lures were failing to spawn the correct number of Red Beasts. Fixed a bug where you could not complete Zana’s Slay the Invasion boss mission in the Dry Sea Map. Fixed a bug where the Thicket Map boss could stop moving and attacking. Fixed a bug where the Glacier Map boss no longer used Leap Slam. Fixed a bug where the Expedition Locker Affinity was not functioning properly if you tried to stash applicable items while viewing a Unique Stash Tab. Fixed a bug where the Heist and Expedition Lockers did not warn you they were full on a particular item when you had an Affinity applied to them. Fixed a bug where you were unable to purchase Whakano’s items with Control-Click. Fixed a bug where mini life bars were shown for friendly monsters on full health. Fixed a bug where the description of Winged Bestiary Scarabs was incorrect. Fixed a visual bug where active Flask Duration bars could extend past the Flask User Interface. Fixed a bug where the Soulkeeper Demigod Weapon could not be applied to Thrusting One Hand Swords. Fixed a bug where Totem Skin Microtransactions were using incorrect animations when applied to Ballista Totems supporting Storm Rain. Fixed two client crashes. Fixed an instance crash. Added vendor recipes for converting Instilling Orbs to Enkindling Orbs and vice versa. You'll need to discover these recipes for yourself, but they're not hard to work out. Quality on the Divergent Flamethrower Trap Skill Gem no longer grants 0-20% increased Cast Speed. It now grants 0-20% increased Trap Throwing Speed. Quality on the Phantasmal Seismic Trap Skill Gem no longer grants 0-60% reduced Cast Speed. It now grants 0-60% reduced wave frequency. Maven’s Memory Game no longer restarts upon re-entering the area if you died and left the area during it. Completing the Heart of the Grove Harvest encounter for the first time now unlocks 5 extra Horticrafting Station crafting slots for those in the area at both the start and end of the fight, instead of just the instance owner. The 30% increased Stun and Block Recovery upgraded Soul of the Brine King Pantheon Power is no longer obtained by capturing Otesha, one of the Iceberg Map bosses. It is now obtained by capturing Glace, the Beach Map boss. Reduced the chance for Expeditions to spawn in the Quarry. Added support for combining the Scavenger and Overseer Microtransaction Character Effects (from the recent Mystery Box) into the Midnight Pact Microtransaction Character Effect. Improved the Stygian, Celestial, and Automaton Necrolord Boots and Gloves Microtransactions to make them more distinguishable. Fixed a bug where Skeletal Mages were dealing far less damage with Cold and Fire Projectiles, compared to Lightning Projectiles. They now all have the same average damage (equal to the average of all of the previous base damage). Fixed a bug where Skeletal Mages' Cold and Lightning Projectiles could not deal a Critical Hit. Fixed a bug where item quantity modifiers did not affect drops for some items such as Crescent Splinters, Sacred Blossoms, and Expedition Artifacts. Fixed a bug where Medved, Feller of Heroes could deal damage after death. Fixed a bug where Excavated Chests in Expeditions could spawn underneath naturally occurring Chests, causing the Excavated Chests to be inaccessible. Fixed a bug where Expedition encounters could be empty in areas such as The Ancient Pyramid, or Vaal Pyramid Maps. Fixed a bug where completing the Upgrade a Modifier Level crafting offer from Rog would not grant credit towards the Broker Deals with Rog Challenge. Fixed a bug where monsters had 0% maximum spell block, they now have 75% maximum spell block. Fixed a bug where Helena’s available items in Act 7 would not refresh after you levelled up. Fixed a bug where you could not purchase partial stacks of currency from vendors with Shift-Click. Fixed a bug where online item filters could fail to load. Fixed an instance crash related to Summon Reaper. The Freezing Pulse skill used by Undying Cultists spawned in Expeditions no longer has additional chance to freeze. Increased the chance for Expedition Bosses to appear in level 68 and above Logbooks. The storm cast by Vorana, Last to Fall now despawns when no players are in range of it. Vorana is also now immune to damage until players have re-entered the storm. Improved the visibility of new dialogue options available from Dannig after discovering Ancient Kalguuran Text. Dannig will now have an exclamation mark for new translated text dialogue options you have discovered in that instance. Rapier One Hand Swords are once again classified as Thrusting One Hand Swords. Their Weapon Range is again 14 (instead of 11). Please update your item filters! Reduced the number of Molten Shell Goatmen in Maps with the Area inhabited by Animals modifier, and reduced the number of Molten Shell Goatmen in Oba’s Cursed Trove. Reduced the damage dealt by the Leap Slam skill used by Goatmen in the late game. Now deal the same amount of damage in Act 1, up to about 33% less damage in the late game. Reduced the damage dealt by the Molten Shell skill used by Goatmen in the late game. Now deal the same amount of damage in Act 1, up to about 40% less hit damage in the late game. Aquamarine Flask now grants 60% reduced Effect of Freeze on you (previously 40%). The of Curing Flask Suffix now grants Immunity to Poison for 4 seconds if used while Poisoned (previously 1 second). The of Dousing Flask Suffix now grants Immunity to Ignite for 4 seconds if used while Ignited (previously 1 second). The of Grounding Flask Suffix now grants Immunity to Shock for 4 seconds if used while Shocked (previously 1 second). The of Heat Flask Suffix now grants Immunity to Chill for 4 seconds if used while Chilled (previously 1 second), and Immunity to Freeze for 4 seconds if used while Frozen (previously 1 second). The of Staunching Flask Suffix now grants Immunity to Bleeding for 4 seconds if used while Bleeding (previously 1 second), and now grants Immunity to Corrupted Blood for 4 seconds if used while affected by Corrupted Blood (previously just removed Corrupted Blood when used). Added a Buff icon for Corrupted Blood Immunity. The Arctic Armour Player Buff now grants Immunity to Freeze. The cast time for Summon Reaper is now 0.6 seconds (previously 1 second). Blade Trap now has +0 to radius at gem level 1, up to +6 to radius at gem level 20. Absolution now deals 21 to 31 Physical Damage at gem level 1 (previously 19 to 28), up to 588 to 882 at gem level 20 (previously 408 to 612). Sentinels of Absolution now deal 242% more damage at gem level 1, scaling up to 429% more damage at gem level 20. Lowered the damage penalty on Bleeding for the Summoned Reaper, overall this means they have approximately 114% more Bleeding damage than before. In future we will reevaluate the Bleed, Poison and Ignite damage penalty for all minions as it is currently too harsh. Adjusted Cost and Reservation Multipliers for various Support Gems, specific changes shown below. Challenge leagues are a great opportunity for a fresh start in a new economy. All of your old characters and items are still present in the Standard and Hardcore leagues, but you're encouraged to join the new leagues, complete challenges and demonstrate your mastery of Path of Exile! In the Expedition Challenge League, you'll meet a group of Kalguuran traders and assist them with recovering their ancestors' runed artifacts. At marked Expedition sites, you must strategically place a series of explosives and detonate them. These explosions unearth a horde of undead Kalguur that must be slain in order to gather the equipment and artifacts buried among them. These artifacts may be turned into one of the Kalguuran traders who each offer a different style of trade themed around bartering, gambling, dealing and exchanging. You may also discover Logbooks which chronicle the locations of sprawling Expedition sites. These can be crafted and traded with other players. Take them to Dannig, the leader of the Kalguur, and he'll grant you passage to one of the locations outlined in the Logbook. In these exotic locations, you'll find a large Expedition that must be excavated with an even longer chain of explosives. During your Expeditions, you must be careful to manage your levels of risk and return. Signs located at the Expedition sites clearly mark out the most dangerous areas to excavate. Special monsters and remnants of past Kalguuran settlements are clearly marked and detonating them can make your Expeditions much more challenging. With 3.15.0, there are Standard, Hardcore and Solo Self-Found variations of the Expedition challenge league available. They have the same core mechanics and items. You can create private league versions of these leagues, with mods that make the game harder. The new challenge leagues include a set of 40 new challenges. When you complete 12 challenges, you will receive the Expedition Footprints. When you reach 24 challenges, you will receive the Expedition Weapon Effect. At 36 challenges completed you'll receive Expedition Portal Effect. These microtransactions are only obtainable in this league. From the 19th challenge onwards and for every third challenge after that, you will receive pieces of the Expedition Totem Pole decoration to display in your hideout. The Totem Pole permanently showcases how many of the Expedition challenges you completed during the league. Added a new Strength Skill Gem - Rage Vortex: Spin with a sword or axe to deal damage in an area around you. Sacrifices some rage to send a ragestorm forward. While enemies are inside it, the ragestorm will slow its movement and repeatedly deal attack damage based on your attack speed. Added a new Strength Skill Gem - Shield Crush: Swipe your shield, dealing area damage in three waves in front of you. Enemies can be hit by two of the waves where they overlap. Added a new Strength Skill Gem - Boneshatter: Attack enemies with a forceful melee strike that also hurts you. Successive uses will raise the damage dealt both to enemies and you. Stunning an enemy with the strike releases a damaging pulse. Requires a Mace, Sceptre, Axe or Staff. Added a new Strength/Intelligence Skill Gem - Battlemage’s Cry: Performs a warcry, taunting nearby enemies to attack the user and exerting the user’s next five melee attacks. Grants a buff which boosts critical strike chance and allows attacks to benefit from increases to spell damage. Exerted attacks trigger a supported spell with their first melee hit. Added a new Strength/Intelligence Skill Gem - Absolution: Damages enemies in an area, applying a debuff for a short duration. If a non-unique enemy dies while affected by the debuff, the enemy's corpse will be consumed to summon a Sentinel of Absolution for a longer secondary duration, or to refresh the duration and life of an existing one instead if you have the maximum number of them. Added a new Strength/Dexterity Skill Gem - Defiance Banner: Cast to reserve mana and carry a banner which increases the armour and evasion of nearby allies, and reduces the critical strike chance of nearby enemies. Gain stages over time while carrying the banner near enemies. Casting the skill again places the banner, ending the mana reservation. Once placed, it becomes more powerful for each stage gained. Added a new Strength Support Gem - Behead: Supports strike skills, causing them to deal more damage with hits and ailments against enemies on low life. Killing blows against rare monsters grant one of their modifiers for 20 seconds. Added a new Strength Support Gem - Earthbreaker: Supports slam skills, causing them to summon an ancestor totem that uses the skill for you while you’re near it. Being near it grants you increased area of effect for melee skills. Added a new Dexterity Skill Gem - Storm Rain: Fires an arrow into the air to land at a targeted location, dealing area damage. The arrow sticks in the ground where it lands, and periodically fires a beam of lightning to another arrow near it, dealing area damage between them. Added a new Dexterity Skill Gem - Explosive Concoction: Throws an explosive bottle that deals unarmed attack damage in an area. Can consume charges from your Ruby, Sapphire, and Topaz flasks to add further damage. Requires an empty main hand. Added a new Dexterity/Strength Skill Gem - Spectral Helix: Throw a spectral copy of your melee weapon. It spins around while flying in a large spiral, damaging enemies in its path, and bouncing if it collides with walls. Added a new Dexterity/Intelligence Skill Gem - Ambush: Teleports you to a nearby enemy, applying a buff to you for a short duration and blinding the enemy for a secondary duration. Performing a melee attack with a One-Handed Weapon removes the buff to exert that attack. Added a new Dexterity/Intelligence Skill Gem - Blade Trap: Throws a trap which, once triggered, swings two copies of your equipped Dagger, Claw or One Handed Sword around it in a circle, each repeatedly damaging enemies they spin through. Added a new Dexterity Support Gem - Focused Ballista: Supports skills that summon ballista totems, causing them to only attack when you fire an attack projectile. Cannot modify the skills of minions. Added a new Intelligence Skill Gem - Forbidden Rite: Lobs an exploding projectile near the targeted location, and extra projectiles toward enemies around you. The projectiles deal chaos damage based on your life and energy shield. Casting this spell damages you. Added a new Intelligence Skill Gem - Eye of Winter: Fires a single eye projectile which constantly releases shard projectiles in a spiral. The shards will damage enemies they impact, dealing cold damage. The eye cannot damage enemies. When the eye dissipates or collides with terrain, it releases a faster spiral of extra shards. Added a new Intelligence Skill Gem - Summon Reaper: Summons a powerful Reaper which uses a variety of slashing area attacks. The Reaper's presence weakens your other minions, and it will consume them to temporarily empower and heal itself. Using this skill while the Reaper is already summoned causes it to dash to the targeted location and perform a powerful attack. Added a new Intelligence Skill Gem - Manabond: Deals lightning damage based upon your missing mana in a circular area around the targeted location, as well as in four rectangular extensions whose lengths depend upon your remaining mana. Added a new Intelligence/Dexterity Skill Gem - Voltaxic Burst: Each cast of this spell applies a buff to you for a short duration, releasing a burst of lightning and chaos spell damage in an area around you when that buff ends. Enemies killed by this damage, or shortly after, will explode. The explosions of the corpses are not affected by modifiers to spell damage, and cannot be reflected. Introduced a new defence type, Ward, found on Expedition items. Ward protects you from all damage types, taking damage from a hit before your life or energy shield up to the amount of Ward you have. Ward is broken when any damage is taken from it, even if the damage taken was lower than the amount of Ward you have. Ward is instantly restored after 5 seconds. Introduced a new Utility Flask - the Gold Flask: Grants increased rarity of items found. This item has been added to the core drop pool. Introduced a new Utility Flask - the Corundum Flask: Grants increased stun threshold. You cannot be stunned more than once during this flask effect. This item has been added to the core drop pool. Introduced a new Utility Flask - Iron Flask: Grants additional Ward and restores Ward on use. Introduced the Enkindling Orb, a currency item that adds an enchantment to a utility flask that will improve it but prevent it from gaining charges during its effect. This item can be found as a drop throughout the game. Introduced the Instilling Orb, a currency item that adds an enchantment to a utility flask that will cause it to be used when certain conditions are met. This item can be found as a drop throughout the game. Added 12 new Divination Cards, designed by our supporters. Added 9 new Unique Items, including one designed by a supporter. Added 9 new equipment base types, available in Expeditions. Lightning Arrow and Lightning Strike have brand new effects. Updated the visual explosion effect and audio from killing Shocked Enemies with Inpulsa’s Broken Heart. Buffs that provide all three Elemental Exposures to nearby enemies, such as Raider's Avatar of the Veil and the Archdemon Crown helmet now only apply a single visual to affected enemies. The Stygian Microtransation versions of Fireball, Vaal Fireball, Firestorm, Frost Blades, and Puncture now use a Stygian Ignite effect. The Stygian Microtransation for Consecrated Path now uses a Stygian Holy Ignite effect. Microtransaction Weapon Effects can now be applied to Shields. We plan on implementing the ability for Supporter Pack Weapon Effects to propagate from your main hand to your shield, in a later patch. The Templar has received audio dialogue for Part Two of Path of Exile. The Envoy no longer repeats himself once you have heard everything he has to say. Added audio for the Poisoned Ailment Effect. Added 3D art and updated the 2D art for Alternate Art Divinarius. Updated the 2D art for Belly of The Beast to be more red (because it is red). Continued to incrementally improve the sound, art, effects and environments. We have rebalanced various monsters found throughout Act One to make them more dangerous. Note, the balance changes made to Act One Bosses and monsters also apply to their Endgame Map versions. Monster life has been increased by roughly 46% at level 1, tapering down to the same amount of life at level 84. Some bosses and monsters in Act 1, such as Hillock and Oozeback have had their life reduced to partially counteract this change. Monster pack size has been buffed in the later areas of Act One and slightly reduced in the Coast. A new monster type named 'Cell Crawlers' have been added to the Lower and Upper Prison. A new monster type named 'Ghouls' have been added to the Lower and Upper Prison. Tar Zombies have been added to The Ship Graveyard and The Ship Graveyard Cave. Kelp, Nimble, Coconut, Spider Crabs and Squids have been added to The Cavern of Wrath. Parasitic Squid have been added to The Cavern of Anger. Brutus has taken the time to renovate his arena. Various effects improvements have been made to monsters and bosses throughout Act One. Various audio improvements have been made to monsters and bosses throughout Act One. We have substantially reworked Path of Exile's Flask sytem, promoting considered flask choices that incentivise interactive gameplay. In addition to adding 3 new Flask Types and two Currency Items that interact with Flasks, we have also made balance changes relating to Flasks for Passive Skills, Ascendancy Passive Skills, and Items. More information can be found in the respective sections. Base Character Evasion Rating has been lowered to 15 (previously 53). Characters no longer gain Evasion Rating per level. Gamewide Poison now does 50% more damage (taking 30% of the combined Physical and Chaos Damage, up from 20%). The Consecrated Ground effect no longer grants 100% increased critical strike chance for Hits against enemies on Consecrated Ground. Added a new Arcane Gem Tag. This applies to skills which care about the amount of mana you have or spend for the purposes of that skill or support. Arcane Cloak, Arcane Surge Support, Archmage Support, Manabond, Sigil of Power, and Stormbind now have this tag. Added a new Prismatic Gem Tag. This applies to skills which pick a random element to attack with, avoiding choosing the same element twice in a row. Elemental Hit and Wild Strike now have this tag. Shield-related Skill Gems now display their Critical Strike Chance and Attack Damage at the top of the Skill Gem hover. A new Asylum cluster has been added to the northwest of the Templar's starting location. Asylum grants 10% reduced Effect of Curses on You, 10% increased Effect of Consecrated Ground you create, and 20% reduced Effect of Curses on you while on Consecrated Ground. A new Careful Conservationist cluster has been added to the northeast of the Ranger’s starting location. Careful Conservationist grants 10% reduced Flask Charges used, Flasks applied to you have 5% increased Effect, and 20% increased Flask Charges gained if you’ve dealt a Critical Strike Recently. A new Natural Remedies cluster has been added to the southeast of the Ranger’s starting location. Natural Remedies grants 20% increased Flask Effect Duration, Flasks applied to you have 10% increased Effect, and Remove Maim and Hinder when you use a Flask. The Attack and Minion Damage small passives near the Templar starting location no longer grant 10% increased Attack Damage. They now grant 10% increased Physical Damage. The Adamant Notable no longer grants Regenerate 1.5% of Life per second while affected by a Guard Skill Buff. Now grants Remove Bleeding when you use a Guard Skill and Remove Corrupted Blood when you use a Guard Skill. The Divine Fervour Notable no longer grants Damage with Weapons Penetrates 3% Elemental Resistances. It now grants Attack Damage Penetrates 3% of Enemy Elemental Resistances. The Forces of Nature Notable no longer grants Damage with Weapons Penetrates 6% Elemental Resistances. It now grants Attack Damage Penetrates 6% of Enemy Elemental Resistances. The Primeval Force Notable no longer grants Damage with Weapons Penetrates 5% Elemental Resistances. It now grants Attack Damage Penetrates 5% of Enemy Elemental Resistances. The Command of the Elements Notable no longer grants Damage with Weapons Penetrates 4% Elemental Resistances. It now grants Attack Damage Penetrates 4% of Enemy Elemental Resistances. The Vitality Extraction Notable has been renamed Cannibalistic Rite. No longer grants Life Flasks gain 1 Charge every 3 seconds. The small passives prior no longer grants 15% increased Life Recovery from Flasks, now grants 16% increased Damage with Skills that Cost Life (previously 12%). Updated the Strength of Blood Keystone description to be more accurate. Now states Life Recovery from Leech is not applied instead of Recovery from Life Leech is not applied. This is purely a description change. The Primal Spirit Notable no longer grants 20% increased Mana Regeneration Rate. It now grants Flasks applied to you have 10% increased Effect. The small passives surrounding it no longer grant Flasks applied to you have 5% increased Effect. The Essence Extraction Notable no longer grants Mana Flasks gain 1 Charge every 3 seconds. It now grants 20% increased Flask Charges gained (previously 15%). The Profane Chemistry Notable no longer grants Flasks applied to you have 8% increased Effect. It now grants Life Flasks gain 1 Charge every 3 seconds. The Arcane Chemistry Notable no longer grants 10% reduced Flask Charges used or Flasks applied to you have 8% increased Effect. It now grants Mana Flasks gain 1 Charge every 3 seconds and 30% increased Mana Recovery from Flasks (previously 25%). The Command of Steel Notable no longer grants 1% increased Damage per 1% Chance to Block Attack Damage. It now grants 5% increased Attack Damage per 5% Chance to Block Attack Damage. The Forceful Skewering Notable now has Impale Damage dealt to Enemies Impaled by you Overwhelms 25% of Physical Damage Reduction (previously 10%). The minor passive prior no longer has Impale Damage dealt to Enemies Impaled by you Overwhelm 5% of Physical Damage Reduction. The Swift Skewering Notable now has Impale Damage dealt to Enemies Impaled by you Overwhelms 15% of Physical Damage Reduction (previously 10%). The Dynamo Notable now grants Recover 10% of Mana over 1 second when you use a Guard Skill (previously 20%). The second small passive in the Rampart cluster no longer grants 10% increased Fortify Duration. It now grants 12% increased Attack Damage while you have Fortify. The small passives in the Steadfast cluster that granted 5% increased Effect of Fortify on you no longer do so. The small passive in the Steadfast cluster that granted 10% increased Effect of Fortify on you no longer does so. It now grants 20% increased Armour while you have Fortify (previously 15%). You can no longer obtain Level 21, 23% Quality Gems outside of the Incursion Temple and specific Divination Cards. Chests/rewards that previously would have given a Level 21, 23% Quality Gem now instead give a Level 21, 20% Quality Gem. You can no longer obtain Level 2 and higher versions of the Empower, Enhance and Enlighten Support Gems from league rewards. Level 4 versions can still be obtained from corruption and specific Divination Cards. Catalysts no longer affect the chances of rolling related modifiers on jewellery through crafting, and Quality on jewellery is no longer removed when crafting with specific Currency. Blessed Boots have been renamed to Fugitive Boots. Fugitive Boots: Implicit now grants 13 to 17% Chaos Resistance (previously 7 to 13%). Amethyst Ring: Implicit now grants 17 to 23% Chaos Resistance (previously 9 to 13%). The Sorrow, Atonement and Penitent Mask base types now have 10-15% increased Effect of Fortify (previously 20-25%). Veiled modifiers are no longer considered Crafted modifiers. Veiled Chaos Orbs can no longer be used to obtain multiple Veiled modifiers on an item. The tier four Aisling crafting bench reward that adds a Veiled modifier now first removes a random modifier. The Abyss jewel suffix modifier that granted a chance to gain Onslaught for 4 seconds on Kill can no longer roll. The Veiled modifier that causes you to Trigger a Socketed Spell when you use a Skill now has a 250% Cost and Reservation Multiplier. Modifiers on items that Trigger a Skill now have a 100% Cost and Reservation Multiplier, unless stated otherwise. Synthesis modifiers that granted reduced Flask Charges Used can no longer roll. Synthesis implicit modifiers with increased Fortify Effect can no longer roll. Influence and Essence modifiers on Weapons can now roll up to 38% Increased Impale Effect on Two-handed Weapons (previously 22%), and up to 25% Increased Impale Effect on One-handed Weapons (previously 15%). The Lancing modifier on Abyss Jewels can now roll 5 to 6% increased Impale Effect (previously 5%). The Impale Chance Influence modifiers on gloves now grants up to 20% chance to Impale Enemies on Hit with Attacks (previously 15%). The Maven version of this modifier has been upgraded accordingly. Added a new Suffix modifier to regular Jewels, granting 5 to 7% chance to Impale Enemies on Hit with Attacks. Damage over Time Multiplier Prefix modifiers on Weapons are now Suffix modifiers, and can no longer roll as Prefixes. This includes Veiled and Crafted modifiers. Dual-attribute Veiled and Crafted modifiers can no longer be rolled with other modifiers that grant flat amounts of attributes of the same types. The Blessing of God Divination Card has been temporarily disabled from dropping. The Abyss Jewel modifier that grants 30% increased Accuracy if you haven’t killed recently can no longer roll. The Veiled modifier that granted increased Effect of Fortify on you while Focused now grants 50% (previously 120%). Veiled crafted modifiers that granted increased Effect of Fortify on you while Focused now grants 25/30/35% (previously 70/80/90%). The Crusader Influence modifier that granted increased Effect of Fortify can no longer roll. Essence of Horror can no longer grant 15% increased Effect of Fortify on Amulets. It now grants 15-25% chance to Crush on Hit. The Shaper Influence Ring modifiers that grant reduced Effect of Curses have been increased to match the values for similar Crusader Influence Ring modifiers. Existing rings with these modifiers can be upgraded to the new values with a Divine Orb. The highest tier modifier on Shaper Influence Boots that grants chance to Avoid Elemental Ailments has been lowered from 31-35% to 22-25%. Lower tier and Maven versions of this modifier have been lowered accordingly. The Veiled Body Armour modifier that granted 35-45% chance to Avoid Elemental Ailments and being Stunned now grants 25-30%. The crafting bench version of this modifier has been lowered accordingly. The Chance to Avoid Elemental Ailments Crafting Bench modifier can now be crafted on Boots and Shields, instead of Gloves and Helmets. The value of the top version of this modifier has been lowered from 21-25% to 16-18%. The Labyrinth Boots Enchantment that grants Increased Mana Regeneration if you’ve cast a Spell Recently now grants 15/25/35% (previously 30/50/70%). The modifiers that granted increased Poison Duration and Socketed Gems are Supported by Poison can no longer roll. Existing items with this modifier will now be Supported by Critical Strike Affliction. The modifiers that granted Socketed Gems are Supported by Poison will now be Supported by Critical Strike Affliction. Quicksilver Flask now consumes 30 of 60 Charges on use (previously 20 of 50). Diamond Flask no longer grants Your Critical Strike Chance is Lucky. It now grants 100% increased Critical Strike Chance. The Ruby, Sapphire, and Topaz Flasks now last 5 seconds (previously 4). They now consume 20 of 50 Charges on use (previously 30 of 60). Quartz Flask now grants 6% chance to Dodge Attack Hits (previously 10%), and 6% chance to Dodge Spell Hits (previously 10%). Granite Flask now grants +1500 to Armour Rating (previously 3000). Jade Flask now grants +1500 to Evasion Rating (previously 3000). Stibnite Flask no longer grants 100% increased Evasion Rating. It now grants 20% more Evasion Rating. Now consumes 40 of 60 Charges on use (previously 10 of 30). Now requires level 40 to use (previously level 14). Basalt Flask no longer grants 15% additional Physical Damage Reduction and 20% of Melee Physical Damage taken reflected to Attacker. It now grants 20% more Armour and Taunts nearby enemies on Use. Now lasts 5 seconds (previously 4.5). Silver Flask now lasts 4 seconds (previously 5). Now requires level 40 to use (previously level 22). Sulphur Flask now lasts 5 seconds (previously 4). Now consumes 40 of 60 Charges on use (previously 20 of 60). Amethyst Flask now lasts 4.5 seconds (previously 3.5). Now consumes 35 of 65 Charges on use (previously 30 of 60). Bismuth Flask now lasts 5.5 seconds (previously 5). Now consumes 15 of 40 Charges on use (from 20 of 50). Aquamarine Flask no longer grants 20% chance to Avoid Cold Damage when Hit. It now grants 40% reduced effect of Freeze on you during Flask Effect. Chilled Ground Radius is now 28 (previously 16). Now consumes 20 of 50 Charges on use (previously 15 of 40). The Enduring Flask Prefix no longer has 30% reduced Duration. It now has 66% reduced Amount Recovered (previously 30%). The of Dousing Flask Suffix no longer grants Immunity to Ignite during Flask effect. It now grants Immunity to Ignite for 1 second if used while Ignited. The of Heat Flask Suffix no longer grants Immunity to Chill and Freeze during Flask effect. It now grants Immunity to Chill for 1 second if used while Chilled, and Grants Immunity to Freeze for 1 second if used while Frozen. The of Grounding Flask Suffix no longer grants Immunity to Shock during Flask effect. It now grants Immunity to Shock for 1 second if used while Shocked. The of Curing Flask Suffix no longer grants Immunity to Poison during Flask effect. It now grants Immunity to Poison for 1 second if used while Poisoned. The of Warding Flask Suffix no longer grants Immunity to Curses during Flask effect. The of Staunching Flask Suffix no longer grants Immunity to Bleeding and Corrupted Blood during Flask effect, or Removes Bleeding and Corrupted Blood on use. It now Grants Immunity to Bleed for 1 second if used while Bleeding, and Removes Corrupted Blood when used. The Experimenter's Flask Prefix now grants 25-30% increased Duration (previously 30-40%). The Surgeon's Flask Prefix can now roll on Diamond Flasks. The Chemist's Flask Prefix now has 15-20% reduced Charges used (previously 20-25%). The Ample Flask Prefix now has +15-25 to Maximum Charges (previously +10-20). The of Iron Skin Flask Suffix now has 40-60% increased Armour during Flask effect (previously 60-100%). The of Reflexes Flask Suffix now has 40-60% increased Evasion Rating during Flask effect (previously 60-100%). The of Adrenaline Flask Suffix now has 6-8% increased Movement Speed during Flask effect (previously 20-30%). The Veiled/crafted Flask Suffix that gives increased Critical Strike Chance during Flask Effect, now grants 40-60% (previously 60-80%). The Veiled/crafted Flask Suffix that gives 50% Chance to Avoid Being Stunned During Flask Effect and 8-12% increased Movement Speed during Flask Effect, no longer grants movement speed during Flask Effect. The Hateforge unique gloves no longer affect Vaal attack skills used by traps and mines. These now only affect Vaal attack skills you use yourself. The Mjölner unique gavel no longer has 100% Increased Spell Damage if Triggered. Now grants 80-100% increased Lightning Damage instead of 30-40% increased Lightning Damage with Attack Skills. These changes affect all versions of this item, though you will need to use a Divine Orb to obtain the new values. Socketed Lightning Spells triggered by Mjölner now have a 0% Cost and Reservation Multiplier (they have no cost!). The modifier on the Militant Faith Timeless Jewel that grants 1% reduced Cost of Skills per 10 Devotion can no longer roll. Existing items with this modifier have had this replaced with a modifier that grants 1% reduced Mana Cost of Skills per 10 Devotion. The modifier on the Triumvirate Authority unique ring that grants Socketed Vaal Skills one additional use can no longer roll. Existing items with this modifier have had this replaced with a modifier that grants Socketed Vaal Skills have 20% chance to regain consumed Souls when used. The Divide and Conquer unique jewel has been renamed Seething Fury, and has been reworked. It no longer changes the behaviour of Spectral Shield Throw specifically. Instead it now grants +0.2% to Off Hand Critical Strike Chance per 10 Maximum Energy Shield on Shield, +4% to Off Hand Critical Strike Multiplier per 10 Maximum Energy Shield on Shield, as well as still granting (10-15)% increased Attack Damage while holding a Shield. These modifier changes affect all versions of this item, though you will need to use a Divine Orb to obtain the new values. The Assailum unique helmet now has Socketed Triggered Bow Skills deal 40% less Damage (previously 33%). This affects existing versions of the item. The Brutal Restraint Timeless Jewel can no longer alter passives to grant 8% increased non-Unique Flask Effect. Instead they can now alter passives to grant 25% chance to gain Alchemist’s Genius on Flask Use. The Perfidy unique body armour now grants two random Banner buff duration modifiers. This does not apply to existing items. The Lethal Pride Timeless Jewel now alters passives to grant 5% increased Fortify Effect (previously 10%). The Berek’s Respite unique ring now has a radius at which it can spread ailments to other enemies of 20 units (previously 25). This affects all versions of the item. The Pledge of Hands unique warstaff now grants 50% increased Maximum Mana (previously 100%). The Facebreaker unique glove modifier 600-800% more Physical Damage with Unarmed Attacks is now 600-800% more Physical Damage with Unarmed Melee Attacks. The Doryani’s Fist unique glove modifier Adds 150-225 to 525-600 Lightning Damage to Unarmed Attacks is now Adds 150-225 to 525-600 Ligthning Damage to Unarmed Melee Hits. The Rigwald’s Curse unique talisman modifier +7% to Unarmed Attack Critical Strike Chance is now +7% to Unarmed Melee Attack Critical Strike Chance. The Martial Artistry unique jewel modifier Passive Skills in Radius also grant: 1% increased Attack Speed with Unarmed Attacks is now Passive Skills in Radius also grant: 1% increased Unarmed Attack Speed with Melee Skills. The Rumi's Concoction unique flask now has 8-12% Chance to Block Attack Damage during Flask Effect (previously 14-20%), and 4-6% Chance to Block Spell Damage during Flask Effect (previously 6-10%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Lion's Roar unique flask now has 7-10% More Melee Physical Damage during effect (previously 20-25%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Bottled Faith Unique Flask no longer has +1-2% to Critical Strike Chance against Enemies on Consecrated Ground during Effect. It now has 100-150% increased Critical Strike Chance against Enemies on Consecrated Ground during Effect, and 20-40% Increased Duration (previously 30-50%). Existing items can be updated to these new modifier values with a Divine Orb. The Atziri's Promise unique flask now has Gain 5-8% Physical Damage as Extra Chaos Damage during effect (previously 15-20%), and Gain 5-8% Elemental Damage as Extra Chaos Damage during effect (previously 10-15%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Dying Sun unique flask now has 10-20% increased Area of Effect during Flask Effect (previously 15-25%), 125-150% increased Charges Used (previously -10 to 10%), and now has 40-60% reduced Duration. Existing items can be updated to these new modifier values with a Divine Orb. The Cinderswallow Urn unique flask now spawns with either Recover 1-3% Life when you kill an enemy during flask effect, Recover 1-3% Mana when you kill an enemy during flask effect or Recover 1-3% Energy Shield when you kill an enemy during flask effect. It now has +90 to maximum Charges, and has 175-200% increased Charges Used. Now recharges 5 Charges when you consume an ignited corpse (previously 1), and Enemies ignited during flask effect now take 7-10% increased damage (previously 10%). The Taste of Hate unique flask now has 10-15% of Physical Damage from Hits taken as Cold Damage (previously 20%), and Gain 10-15% of Physical Damage as Extra Cold Damage during effect (previously 15-20%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Wise Oak unique flask now has During Flask effect, 6% Reduced Damage taken of each Element for which your Uncapped Elemental Resistance is lowest (previously 10%), and During Flask effect, Damage Penetrates 5-8% Resistance of each Element for which your Uncapped Elemental Resistance is highest (previously 10-15%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Vessel of Vinktar unique flask now has 125-150% Increased Charges used (previously 80-100%). The variant that added 25-35 to 110-130 Lightning Damage to Spells during effect now adds 10-15 to 55-65. The variant that added 25-35 to 110-130 Lightning Damage to Attacks now adds 10-15 to 55-65. The variant that granted Damage Penetrates 10% Lightning Resistance during effect now grants 6%. Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Witchfire Brew unique flask no longer has 25-40% increased Damage Over Time during Flask Effect. Now has -10 to 10% increased Charges Used (previously 50% increased). These modifier changes affect all versions of this item, though you will need to use a Divine Orb to obtain the new values. The Coralito's Signature unique flask no longer grants 50-75% increased Duration of Poisons you inflict during Flask effect, or grants Perfect Agony during effect. Now has Take 200-300 Chaos Damage per Second during flask effect (previously 30), and now grants Poisons you inflict with Critical Strikes have +20-30% to Damage over Time Multiplier. Existing items can be updated to the new Chaos Damage per Second modifier values with a Divine Orb. The Rotgut unique flask no longer has 10-30% increased Movement Speed during Flask effect, or 50-100% increased Charges used. Now has Gain Onslaught for 3 seconds per Frenzy Charge on use (previously 2), and 30-50% increased Flask Duration (previously 50%). These modifier changes affect all versions of this item, though you will need to use a Divine Orb to obtain the new values. The Soul Catcher unique flask now has Vaal Skills have 60-80% increased Critical Strike Chance during effect (previously 80-120%), and Vaal Skills deal 60-80% increased Damage during effect (previously 80-120%). Vaal skills used during effect now have 10% reduced Soul Gain Prevention (previously 20-40%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Kiara's Determination unique flask now has 60-80% reduced Duration (previously 60%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Forbidden Taste unique flask now has 25% of maximum Life taken as Chaos Damage per second (previously 8%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Divination Distillate unique flask now has 20-30% increased Rarity of items found during flask effect (previously 40-60%), and 8-12% increased Quantity of items found during flask effect (previously 12-18%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Blood of the Karui unique flask now has 50% increased Life Recovered (previously 100%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Doedre's Elixir unique flask now has 250-300% increased Charges Used (previously 120-150%), now removes 80% of maximum Energy Shield on use (previously 20%), and now causes you to take 50% of maximum Life as Chaos Damage on use (previously 10%). You now gain 1-3 Power Charges on use (previously 1), 1-3 Frenzy Charges on use (previously 1), and 1-3 Endurance Charges on use (previously 1). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. The Overflowing Chalice unique flask no longer has 10-20% increased Duration. It now has 40-60% increased Charge Recovery (previously 100%), and 50-100% increased Charges Gained by other Flasks during Flask Effect (previously 100%). Existing versions can be updated to the new values with a Divine Orb. Winterheart now Regenerates 10% of Life per second while Frozen (from 20%). The Alchemist’s Genius buff from the Spiked Concoction Notable now grants 10% Increased Flask Effect (previously 20%). The Numbing Elixir Notable now grants 40% reduced Effect of Curses on you during Effect of any Mana Flask, and 40% reduced Effect of non-Damaging Ailments on you during Effect of any Life Flask. The Winter Commander Notable no longer grants 4% increased Movement Speed. It now grants 8% increased Evasion Rating. The Winter Prowler Notable no longer grants 6% increased Movement Speed. It now grants 10% increased Life Recovery from Flasks. The Darting Movements Notable now grants 3% increased Movement Speed (previously 5%). The Cold Conduction notable no longer grants Enemies Chilled by your Hits are Shocked or Enemies Shocked by your Hits are Chilled. It now grants 25% increased Effect of Lightning Ailments against Chilled Enemies and 25% increased Effect of Cold Ailments against Shocked Enemies. The Hollow Palm Technique Notable now grants 40% more Attack Speed with Melee Skills while you are Unencumbered. It previously granted 60% more Attack Speed while you are Unencumbered. The modifier that granted 14 to 20 Added Attack Physical Damage per 10 Dexterity while you are Unencumbered is now 14 to 20 Attack Physical Damage to Melee Skills per 10 Dexterity while you are Unencumbered. The Fasting Notable now grants 10% increased Movement Speed while under no Flask Effects (previously 20%). The Distilled Perfection Notable now grants 10% increased Flask Effect Duration (previously 20%). The Peak Vigour Notable now grants 20% increased Life Recovery from Flasks (previously 30%). The Liquid Inspiration Notable now grants 20% increased Mana Recovery from Flasks (previously 30%). The Brand Loyalty Notable no longer grants 20% increased Brand Attachment Range. It now grants Enemies take 3% increased Damage for each of your Brands Attached to them (previously 4%). The Holy Conquest Notable no longer grants 10% increased Cast Speed with Brand Skills, or 5% increased Movement Speed. The Grand Design Notable no longer grants 10% increased Cast Speed with Brand Skills. It now grants 20% increased Brand Damage. The Elegant Form Notable now grants 15% chance to Avoid Elemental Ailments (previously 30%). The Haemorrhage Notable now grants 10% Damage over Time Multiplier for Ailments from Critical Strikes (previously 15%). The Exposure Therapy Notable now grants 5% Damage over Time Multiplier (previously 8%). The Brush with Death Notable now grants 5% Damage over Time Multiplier (previously 10%). The Wasting Affliction Notable now grants Damaging Ailments deal damage 5% faster (previously 10%). The Circling Oblivion Notable now grants 15% Duration of Ailments on Enemies (previously 25%). The Tempered Arrowheads Notable now grants Bow Skills have 6% to Damage over Time Multiplier (previously 10%). The Disease Vector Notable now grants 6% to Damage over Time Multiplier for Poison while wielding a Claw or Dagger (previously 10%). The Eye of the Storm Notable now grants 10% Damage over Time Multiplier for Ignite from Critical Strikes (previously 20%). The Cooked Alive Notable now grants Enemies Ignited by you have -5% to Fire Resistance (previously 10%). The Burning Bright Notable no longer has 8% to Fire Damage over Time Multiplier, or 20% increased Fire Damage. It now has 25% increased Burning Damage. The Blowback Notable now grants Ignites deal damage 8% faster (previously 15%). The Cold-Blooded Killer Notable now grants 5% to Cold Damage over Time Multiplier (previously 8%). The Deep Chill Notable now grants 5% to Cold Damage over Time Multiplier (previously 10%). The Septic Spells Notable now grants Spell Skills have 5% to Damage over Time Multiplier for Poison (previously 10%), now has 5% increased Cast Speed (previously 8%). The Low Tolerance Notable no longer has 8% to Damage over Time Multiplier for Poison. The Steady Torment Notable now has 6% to Damage over Time Multiplier for Bleeding you inflict on Poisoned Enemies (previously 10%) and 6% to Damage over Time Multiplier for Poison you inflict on Bleeding Enemies (previously 10%). Now has 15% increased Bleeding Duration (previously 20%), and 15% increased Poison Duration (previously 20%). The Eldritch Inspiration Notable no longer grants 8% to Chaos Damage over Time Multiplier. It now grants 20% increased Chaos Damage. The Wound Aggravation Notable now grants 5% to Physical Damage over Time Multiplier while wielding an Axe or Sword (previously 10%). The Vivid Hues Notable no longer grants 12% to Damage over Time Multiplier for Bleeding. It now grants 20% increased Bleeding Damage. The Rend Notable now grants 5% to Physical Damage over Time Multiplier (previously 12%), and 20% increased Bleed Duration (previously 30%). The Compound Injury Notable now grants 35% increased Damage with Bleeding you inflict on Maimed Enemies (previously 50%). The Blood Artist Notable now grants 6% to Physical Damage over Time Multiplier if you’ve Spent Life Recently (previously 14%). The Phlebotomist Notable now grants 6% to Physical Damage over Time Multiplier if you’ve dealt a Critical Strike Recently (previously 14%). Shield Crush can be purchased from Nessa for the Marauder, Templar, Duelist, and Scion after completing Enemy at the Gate. Earthbreaker Support can be purchased from Nessa by the Marauder, Templar, Duelist, and Scion after completing The Caged Brute. Storm Burst, Storm Brand, and Wintertide Brand are no longer offered to the Witch for completing The Siren’s Cadence. Ice Nova is no longer offered to the Shadow for completing The Siren’s Cadence. Spectral Shield Throw is no longer offered to the Marauder or Duelist for completing The Siren’s Cadence, and can no longer be purchased from Nessa by the Templar, Ranger, Shadow, or Scion. Absolution is now offered to the Templar for completing The Siren’s Cadence, and can be purchased from Nessa by the Marauder, Witch, and Scion. Blade Trap can be purchased from Nessa by the Ranger, Shadow, and Scion after completing The Siren’s Cadence. Voltaxic Burst is now offered to the Shadow for completing The Siren’s Cadence, and can be purchased from Nessa by the Witch and Scion. Manabond is now offered to the Witch and Templar for completing The Siren’s Cadence, and can be purchased from Nessa by the Shadow and Scion. Spectral Helix is now offered to the Scion for completing The Siren’s Cadence, and can be purchased from Nessa by the Marauder, Templar, Duelist, Ranger, and Shadow. Brand Recall is no longer offered to the Witch for completing Intruders in Black. Defiance Banner is now offered to the Duelist for completing Intruders in Black, and can be purchased from Yeena by the Marauder, Templar, and Scion. Forbidden Rite can be purchased from Yeena by the Witch, Shadow, and Scion after completing Intruders in Black. Dark Pact, Winter Orb, Penance Brand, and Armageddon Brand are no longer offered to the Witch for completing Sever the Right Hand. Rage Vortex and Boneshatter are now offered to the Marauder for completing Sever the Right Hand, and can be purchased from Clarissa by the Templar, Duelist and Scion. Battlemage's Cry is now offered to the Templar for completing Sever the Right Hand, and can be purchased from Clarissa by the Marauder, Duelist, and Scion. Spectral Shield Throw is now offered to the Duelist for completing Sever the Right Hand, and can be purchased from Clarissa by the Marauder, Templar, Ranger, and Scion. Storm Rain and Explosive Concoction are now offered to the Ranger for completing Sever the Right Hand, and can be purchased from Clarissa by the Duelist, Shadow, and Scion. Summon Reaper is now offered to the Witch for completing Sever the Right Hand, and can be purchased from Clarissa by the Templar and Scion. Eye of Winter is now offered to the Witch for completing Sever the Right Hand, and can be purchased from Clarissa by the Templar, Shadow, and Scion. Swiftbrand Support is no longer offered to the Witch for completing A Fixture of Fate. Focused Ballista Support is now offered to the Ranger for completing A Fixture of Fate, and can be purchased from Clarissa by the Duelist, Shadow, and Scion. Arcanist Brand is no longer offered to the Witch for completing The Eternal Nightmare. Behead Support is now offered to the Marauder and Duelist for completing The Eternal Nightmare, and can be purchased from Petarus and Vanja by the Templar and Scion. Ambush is now offered to the Shadow for completing Breaking the Seal, and can be purchased from Petarus and Vanja by the Duelist, Ranger, and Scion. Upon completing The Great White Beast, you are now also offered the choice of a Magic Bismuth Flask as a reward. Upon completing The Key to Freedom, you are now offered a choice of the following rewards: Ruby Flask, Sapphire Flask, Topaz Flask, Amethyst Flask, Diamond Flask, Granite Flask, or Jade Flask. Upon completing The Silver Locket, you are now offered a choice of the following rewards: Diamond Flask, Granite Flask, Jade Flask, Sulphur Flask, Quartz Flask, Aquamarine Flask, or Corundum Flask. Upon completing Safe Passage, you are now offered a choice of the following rewards: Divine Life Flask, Divine Mana Flask, Silver Flask, Sulphur Flask, Basalt Flask, Stibnite Flask, Quartz Flask, Aquamarine Flask, or Corundum Flask. Fixed a bug where it was sometimes possible for Blade Vortex to fail to create a blade. Fixed a bug where Vaal Rain of Arrows and some monster skills were not inflicting Maim on Hit. Fixed a bug where the visuals for Vaal Ground Slam did not accurately represent the damage area. Fixed a bug where Divergent Galvanic Arrow could damage enemies through walls. Fixed a visual bug where Mirage Archer appeared to fire two sets of arrows for one attack with certain bow skills. Fixed a bug where the Thirst for Blood Skill, granted by Jack, The Axe, was not saved when you logged out or were disconnected. Fixed a bug where Nearby Enemy Totems did not have Lightning Resistance equal to yours when using Doryani's Protoype. Fixed a bug where Sigil of Power would buff allies and not you when used with Ichimonji. Sigil of Power now buffs you and not allies when used with Ichimonji. Fixed a bug where Bear Trap could cause some bosses to fail to transition phases, making them unkillable. Fixed a bug where Bodyswap was ignoring its maximum target distance. Fixed a bug where Mines or Traps supporting Flame Dash would not cast Flame Dash when detonating or triggering with no nearby target. Fixed a bug where the Stygian Spectral Shield Throw Microtransaction had a slower projectile speed than the base visual effect. Also fixed a case where the base visual effect had a slower projectile speed for the Templar. Fixed a bug where the Champion’s Conqueror Ascendancy Passive was not applying the correct amount of damage reduction on hits from Enemies Taunted by you. Fixed a bug where Rare Beasts killed in the Menagerie were not granting flask charges. Fixed another rare bug which could cause duplicate rooms to appear in the Temple of Atzoatl. Fixed a bug with Siphoning Trap where Chill could be applied for a longer duration than intended. Fixed a bug where you could have a Rage amount higher than your Maximum Rage. Fixed a bug where modifiers to total Mana Cost of Skills would incorrectly apply (at least partially) to Life Costs in some situations. Fixed a bug where the Replica Red Trail unique boots were not granting Necrotic Footprints when equipped. Fixed a bug where The Maven could create clones of map bosses as they were dying. Fixed a bug which prevented selecting a new encounter node to travel to after dying in a previous Delve encounter. Fixed a bug where monsters in the Crystal Spire Abyssal Depths Delve encounter could continue to spawn after the encounter had ended. Fixed a bug where some Betrayal targets could be defeated in inaccessible areas, making them impossible to interact with. Fixed a bug where Namharim, Born of Night could get stuck repeatedly casting a skill. Fixed a bug where Alva did not offer you the Take Temple Chronicle option when talking to her for the first time after logging in. Fixed a bug where party members were not shown an accurate timer or progress bar when entering an in-progress Incursion. Fixed a bug where the Maven Beacon would not temporarily disable itself if you had already collected the relevant Boss from the Map Fragments placed in the Map Device. Fixed a bug where you could have more Ritual Encounters in a Map than intended. Fixed a bug where Golems wouldn't revive if you died while they were reviving. Fixed a bug where Glacial Hammer would not trigger on-kill effects if it shattered enemies below 33% Life. Fixed a bug where Herald of Purity Sentinels wouldn’t receive appropriate buffs and debuffs if they were spawned very closely after dying, most notably with Infernal Legion Support. Fixed a bug where Lacerate was not using the average Attack Speed of your weapons when dual-wielding. Fixed a visual bug where Warcries that exert skills didn’t accurately display their exerted attack counter if you had multiple copies of the same Warcry socketed. Fixed a bug where the Phantasmal Cremation Skill would only explode corpses if they were enemies. Fixed a bug where the sound of some of Baran, The Crusader’s skills could be unaffected by the volume slider. Fixed a bug where Harvest Jewel Implicit crafting options could not be applied to Jewels with an Item Level of 1. Fixed a bug where Firebuzz monsters in Heist encounters could not be target-able by minions, totems, or Heist Rogues. Fixed a bug where you would not be warned when trying to replace an existing enchantment with a Labyrinth enchantment. Fixed a bug where some Corpse targeting Skills were failing to be used. Fixed a bug where minions affected by Minion Instability were not dealing the correct damage amount when exploding. Fixed a bug where the Overlord Cluster Jewel Notable Passive did not grant Fortify on Hit for off-hand Hits. Fixed a bug where using an Orb of Chance on a Conqueror Citadel Map could turn it into the Unique version of that Map, with no Citadel. Fixed a bug where the visuals for Flameblast and Blood Sacrament did not accurately represent the damage area. Fixed a bug where the Healthy Mind unique jewel did not transform increased Golem Life passives to increased Golem Mana passives. Fixed a bug where Reroll Influence on a Rare Weapon Harvest crafting options could not be used on quivers. Fixed a bug where Sextants were using outdated item tag names when pricing items Premium Stash Tabs. Fixed a bug where the Supported by Faster Attacks Influence modifiers did not have the gem or support tags. Fixed a bug where Ritual League Uniques were not shown in the Unique Stash Tab in Standard League. Fixed a bug where a skill without a cooldown could gain a cooldown under specific conditions when weapon swapping. Fixed a bug where the Phlebotomist Cluster Jewel Notable was not increasing Physical Damage over Time correctly if you had dealt a Critical Strike Recently. Fixed a bug where the visual indicator for the Silence Curse was not visible. Fixed a bug where Flicker Strike would not teleport and attack your target if you did not have line of sight to them, or if your cursor was in an unreachable area. Flicker Strike now prioritises namelocked enemies, then enemies near your cursor, then enemies in range (preferring the direction of your cursor). Fixed a bug where Queen’s Demand would not alternate triggering Flames of Judgement and Storm of Judgement correctly after using a flask. Fixed a bug where the Slay corrupted monsters Zana mission could sometimes not be completable. Fixed a number of cases where items could drop in inaccessible areas. Fixed a visual bug where the 3D art for the Alternate Art Atziri’s Mirror had a black background. Fixed a bug where the sound played as the Silo map boss switches stance was unaffected by the volume slider. Fixed a bug where the Vaal Orb Weapon Skin could not be applied to Sceptres. Fixed a number of wonky microtransaction interactions. Fixed 4 instance crashes. Fixed 5 client crashes.